                              परिपत्र / CIRCULAR
SEBI/HO/ ITD-1/ITD_CSC_EXT/P/CIR/2025/60                        April 30, 2025


To,
All Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs)
All Depositories
All Depository Participants through Depositories
All Investment Advisors (IAs) / Research Analysts (RAs)
All KYC Registration Agencies (KRAs)
All Merchant Bankers
All Portfolio Managers
All Registrar to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents (RTAs)
All Stock Brokers through Exchanges
All Stock Exchanges
All Venture Capital Funds (VCFs)
Association of Investment Bankers of India
Association of Portfolio Managers in India (APMI)
BSE Limited (Investment Adviser Administration and supervisory body-
IAASB)
BSE Limited (Research Analysts Administration and supervisory body-
RAASB)


 Sir / Madam,

Subject: Clarifications to Cybersecurity and Cyber Resilience Framework
          (CSCRF) for SEBI Regulated Entities (REs)



1. Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has issued ‘Cybersecurity and
   Cyber Resilience Framework (CSCRF) for SEBI Regulated Entities (REs)’ vide
   circular SEBI/HO/ ITD-1/ITD_CSC_EXT/P/CIR/2024/113 dated August 20, 2024.
   Upon receipt of various queries from REs seeking extension and clarification on

                                    Page 1 of 7
   the aforementioned circular, SEBI has also issued ‘Clarifications to Cybersecurity
   and Cyber Resilience Framework (CSCRF) for SEBI Regulated Entities (REs)’ vide
   circular SEBI/HO/ ITD-1/ITD_CSC_EXT/P/CIR/2024/184 dated December 31,
   2024 and ‘Extension towards Adoption and Implementation of Cybersecurity
   and Cyber Resilience Framework (CSCRF) for SEBI Regulated Entities (REs)’
   vide circular SEBI/HO/ITD-1/ ITD_CSC_EXT/P/ CIR/2025/45 dated March 28,
   2025.


2. Based on further discussions with REs, it has been decided to revise the thresholds
   and categorization of following REs as contained in this circular. It may be noted
   that the category of REs shall be decided at the beginning of the financial year
   based on the data of the previous financial year. Once the category of RE is
   decided, RE shall remain in the same category throughout the financial year
   irrespective of any changes in the parameters during the financial year. The
   category shall be validated   by    the    respective     reporting   authority     at     the
   time of compliance submission. Further, the criteria given and their thresholds
   for different categories will continue to be updated as and when required.


   2.1. Stock brokers:


      2.1.1. Stockbrokers fulfilling any one of the following parameters shall be
             classified    accordingly       (the      parameters     shall      be    applied
             independently). The higher categorisation shall be made applicable in
             case a stockbroker falls into two different categories based on the two
             parameters independently.
             Table 1: Criteria and thresholds for Stockbroker categorisation
     S.    Parameters        Qualified         Mid-          Small-           Self-
     No.                     REs               size          size             certification
                                               REs           REs              REs
     1.    Number         of More     than More than         More than More           than
           total registered 10 lakhs           1 lakh and    10,000           1,000    and
           clients                             up to 10      and up to up to 10,000
                                               lakhs         1 lakh


                                         Page 2 of 7
 S.     Parameters       Qualified           Mid-           Small-      Self-
 No.                     REs                 size           size        certification
                                             REs            REs         REs
 2.     Clientele        More      than More than           More than More       than
        trading volume 10, 00,000            1,00,000       10,000      1,000     and
        in a year (in                        and up to      and up to up to 10,000
        Crores)                              10,00,000      1,00,000


   2.1.2. Stock Brokers with less than 1,000 crores clientele trading volume (in a
        year) and less than 1,000 total registered clients are exempted from
        CSCRF.


2.2. Depository Participants (DPs):
   It shall be noted that categorisation of DP shall be decided based on the
   highest thresholds of below-mentioned classification. For example: if a DP is
   registered as both stock broker and Bank, then it will be categorised as
   Qualified RE. Further, DPs having clients less than 100 shall be exempted
   from the requirement of SOC services or on-boarding to Market-SOC (M-
   SOC).

   Table 2: Criteria and thresholds for DPs categorisation

 S.      Regulated                DP                 also     Classification    for
 No      Entity                   registered as               CSCRF
 1.                               Stock Broker                To be classified as per
                                                              the criteria followed for
         Depository
                                                              stock brokers.
         Participant (DP)
 2.                               Other      than     Stock Qualified RE
                                  Brokers




2.3. Investment Advisers (IAs):
   IAs not registered with SEBI in other capacities shall be exempted from
   provisions of CSCRF. With respect to IAs registered with SEBI in other


                                       Page 3 of 7
   capacity, those IAs shall follow the highest among the other category in which
   they are registered with SEBI apart from IA.


2.4. Research Analysts (RAs):
   RAs not registered with SEBI in any other capacity shall be exempted from
   the CSCRF framework. With respect to RAs registered with SEBI in other
   capacity, those RAs shall follow the highest among the other category in
   which they are registered with SEBI apart from RA.

   2.4.1. The reporting authority for IAs and RAs w.r.t. CSCRF compliance shall
          be modified from BASL and SEBI respectively to BSE Ltd. for both IAs
          and RAs for a period of five years starting from July 25, 2024.



2.5. KYC Registration Agencies (KRAs):
   KRAs shall be re-categorised from MIIs to Qualified REs.

2.6. Portfolio Managers:
   Categorisation of Portfolio Managers is as per the following table.


   Table 3: Criteria and thresholds for Portfolio Managers categorisation
 S.     Criteria     Qualified     Mid-size       Small-       Self-
 No.                 REs           REs            size REs     certification
                                                               REs
 1.     AUM          N.A.          Above          N.A.         Rs.          3000
                                   Rs, 3000                    Crores        and
                                   Crores                      below


   Further, Portfolio Managers who fall under self-certification REs category
   and have less than 100 clients shall be exempted from the requirement of
   mandatory Market-SOC (M-SOC).



2.7. Alternate Investment Funds (AIFs) and Venture Capital Funds (VCFs):
   Categorisation shall be at the manager level instead of AIF level. If the
   manager of AIF is also the manager of VCFs, then corpus of VCF schemes

                                   Page 4 of 7
   managed by the manager shall also be included for determining the
   threshold limits. Therefore, criteria and thresholds for AIFs and VCFs
   categorisation shall be clubbed together and provided in the single table as
   mentioned below:


   Table 4: Criteria and thresholds for AIFs and VCFs categorisation
 S.       Criteria           Qualified     Mid-      Small-         Self-
 No.                         REs           size      size           certification
                                           REs       REs            REs
 1.       Sum of corpus N.A.               Rs.       More than      Rs.       3000
          of   all   AIFs,                 10,000    RS. 3000       Crores    and
          VCFs,       and                  crores    Crores         below
          their schemes                    and       and    less
          managed by a                     above     than     Rs.
          manager                                    10,000
                                                     Crores


   Further, managers of AIFs/ VCFs classified as self-certification REs and with
   a client base of less than 100 shall be exempted from the mandatory Market-
   SOC (M-SOC) requirement.



2.8. Merchant Bankers (MBs):
      The Merchant Bankers shall be categorised as per the following table:


      Table 5: Criteria and thresholds for MBs categorisation
S.                   Merchant Banker                                 Category for
No.                                                                    CSCRF
 1. MBs which are engaged in any activity pertaining to issue        Mid-size REs
       management inter alia Public Issues (IPOs, FPOs, IPOs
       by SME), Public Offers by REITs/InvITs, Buy-Back of
       Securities, Delisting of Equity Shares, Open Offer under
       SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)
       Regulations, 2011


                                     Page 5 of 7
    S.                      Merchant Banker                          Category for
    No.                                                                CSCRF
     2. All other MBs                                               Small-size REs



3. Further, Registrar to an Issue and share Transfer Agents (RTA) having clients less
   than 100 shall be exempted from the requirement of employing SOC services or
   on-boarding to M-SOC.


4. In case an RE is registered under more than one category of REs, then the
   provision of highest category under which such an RE falls shall be applicable to
   that RE.


5. W.r.t. ‘Framework for Adoption of Cloud Services by SEBI Regulated Entities
   (REs)’ issued vide SEBI circular SEBI/HO/ITD/ITD_VAPT/P/CIR/2023/033 dated
   March 06, 2023 (CSCRF: Annexure-J), implementation of a dedicated Hardware
   Security Module (HSM) shall be made mandatory for MIIs and Qualified REs (as
   per the classification given in CSCRF). However, mid-size REs, small-size REs,
   and self-certification REs shall be allowed to implement any alternative of HSM
   based on their risk assessment. Such risk assessment shall be approved by the
   Board/ Partners/ Proprietor of the RE.


6. Stock Brokers, Depository Participants, KRAs, Portfolio Managers, Investment
   Advisers (IAs)/ Research Analysts (RAs), Merchant Bankers (MBs), AIFs/ VCFs
   and Registrars to an Issue / Share Transfer Agents shall take necessary action for
   implementation of the circular.


7. Stock Portfolio Managers and APMI shall take necessary steps for implementing
   the circular, including putting the required processes and systems in place to
   ensure compliance with the provisions of this circular.


8. Stock Exchanges/ Depositories are directed to:
   8.1. Make necessary amendments to the relevant byelaws, rules and regulations
       for the implementation of the above direction and



                                      Page 6 of 7
   8.2. Bring the provisions of this circulars to the notice of their members/ participants
       and also disseminate the same on their websites.


9. BSE Limited is directed to:
   9.1. Make necessary amendments to the relevant byelaws, rules and regulations
          for the implementation of the above direction and
   9.2. Bring the provisions of this circulars to the notice of Investment Advisers (IAs)
          and Research Analysts (RAs) and disseminate the same on their websites.


10. As already communicated vide SEBI circular SEBI/HO/ITD-1/ ITD_CSC_EXT/P/
   CIR/2025/45 dated March 28, 2025, timeline for compliance is June 30, 2025, for
   REs covered in the said circular. The cyber audit(s) conducted from the financial
   year   2025-26    shall   be    conducted    as    per    the   circular   SEBI/HO/ITD-
   1/ITD_CSC_EXT/P/CIR/2024/113 dated August 20,2024, read along with the
   clarifications issued.


11. This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1)
   of the Securities and Exchange of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests of
   investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the
   securities market.


12. This circular is issued with the approval of Competent Authority.


13. This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the category
   “Legal” and drop “Circulars”.


                                                                   भवदीय Yours faithfully,

                                                मृ दुस्मिता गोस्वामी Mridusmita Goswami
                                                            महाप्रबंधक General Manager

                                                            दू िभाष / Phone: 022-26449504
                                               ईमेल / Email: mridusmitag@sebi.gov.in




                                        Page 7 of 7
