                                                  CIRCULAR

SEBI/HO/IMD/IMD-I/DOF1/P/CIR/2022/112                                                               August 26, 2022

To,

All Portfolio Managers

Dear Sir / Madam,

Subject: Circular for Portfolio Managers

1. The amendment to SEBI (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020 (“PMS Regulations”) notified
   on August 22, 2022 (available at link), inter-alia mandates prudential limits on investments in
   associates/related parties of Portfolio Manager, the requirement of taking prior consent of
   client for such investments and restrictions based on the credit rating of securities. The
   definitions of the terms “related party” and “associate” have been provided in the PMS
   Regulations. The amendment to PMS Regulations shall come into force on the thirtieth day
   from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.

2. Pursuant to the above, the Portfolio Managers shall ensure compliance with the following:

  A. Limits on investment in securities of associates / related parties of Portfolio Managers

       Regulation 24 (3A) of PMS Regulations inter-alia provides that the Portfolio Manager shall
       ensure compliance with the prudential limits on investment as may be specified by the
       Board. Accordingly, the Portfolio Managers shall ensure the following:

  i.    Portfolio Manager shall invest up to a maximum of 30 percent of their client’s portfolio (as
        a percentage of the client’s assets under management) in the securities of their own
        associates/related parties. Further, the Portfolio Manager shall ensure compliance with
        the following limits:

         Security                            Limit for investment in         single    Limit for investment across multiple
                                             associate/related       party      (as    associates/related      parties  (as
                                             percentage of client’s AUM)               percentage of client’s AUM)
         Equity                                              15%                                       25%
         Debt and hybrid securities                          15%                                       25%
         Equity + Debt + Hybrid securities                                            30%

                                                                                                              Page 1 of 8
 ii. The aforementioned limits shall be applicable only to direct investments by Portfolio
     Managers in equity and debt/hybrid securities of their own associates/related parties and
     not to any investments in the Mutual Funds.

 iii. Hybrid securities includes units of Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs), units of
      Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs), convertible debt securities and other securities
      of like nature.

B. Prior consent of the client regarding investments in the securities of associates/related
   parties

   Regulation 22(1A) of PMS Regulations provides that the Portfolio Manager may make
   investments in the securities of its related parties or its associates only after obtaining the
   prior consent of the client in such manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time.
   Accordingly, the Portfolio Managers shall ensure compliance with the following:

  i. Portfolio Managers shall obtain a one-time prior positive consent of client in the format
     specified at Annexure A (consent form), as a part of the agreement mandated under
     Regulation 22(1) of the PMS Regulations.

 ii. The consent form shall have an option to indicate dissent, in case the client does not want
     to undertake any investment in the securities of associates/related parties of respective
     Portfolio Manager. The client shall also have an option to specify a limit on investments in
     the securities of associates/related parties of respective Portfolio Manager, below the
     ceiling specified in para 2 (A) (i) above.

 iii. The text and figures of the consent form shall be prominently highlighted and not be
      below size 12 font.

 iv. For new clients, the aforementioned consent shall be obtained at the time of entering into
     agreement, in terms of Regulation 22 (1) of PMS Regulations (i.e., at the time of
     onboarding of a new client).

 v. For existing clients, the aforementioned consent shall be obtained by way of execution of
    a supplementary agreement with the clients. In cases where the agreements entered with
    existing clients contain provision for obtaining consent for investments through a specified
    mode, the same mode can be used for obtaining aforesaid prior consent for investments
    in the securities of associates/related parties of the Portfolio Manager as well.

 vi. Portfolio Manager shall not make any investments in the securities of associates/related
                                                                                      Page 2 of 8
     parties without the prior consent of the client at the time of on boarding new clients. For
     existing clients, fresh investments in the securities of associates/related parties of Portfolio
     Managers can be made only after obtaining consent from the client.

 vii. In the event of passive breach of the specified investment limits, (i.e., occurrence of
      instances not arising out of omission and/or commission of portfolio manager), a
      rebalancing of the portfolio shall be completed by Portfolio Managers within a period of 90
      days from the date of such breach. Notwithstanding the same, the client may give an
      informed, prior positive consent to the Portfolio Manager for waiver from the rebalancing of
      the portfolio to rectify any passive breach of the investment limits.

viii. Such requirement of rebalancing in the event of a passive breach of investment limits shall
      be suitably disclosed in the consent form mentioned at para 2(B)(i) above and any waiver
      from the same shall also be obtained in the same document.

 ix. In accordance with Regulation 27 (1) of the PMS Regulations, Portfolio Managers shall
     maintain records and documents pertaining to:

    a) Prior positive consent or dissent, as the case may be.
    b) Instances of the passive breach of investment limits, if any.
    c) Steps taken, if any to rectify the passive breach of investments limits.
    d) Waiver obtained from the client regarding rebalancing in the event of a passive breach
       of investment limits.

C. Minimum credit rating of securities for investments by Portfolio Managers

   Regulation 24 (3C) of PMS Regulations provides that Portfolio Managers shall not be allowed
   to invest clients’ funds in unrated securities of their related parties or their associates.
   Further, Regulation 24 (3E) of PMS Regulations provides that the Portfolio Manager shall
   ensure investment of its clients’ funds on the basis of the credit rating of securities as may be
   specified by the Board. Accordingly, with respect to investments in debt and hybrid securities,
   the Portfolio Managers shall ensure compliance with the following:

  i. Portfolio Managers offering discretionary portfolio management services shall not make any
     investment in below investment grade securities.

  ii. Portfolio Managers offering non-discretionary portfolio management services shall not make
      any investment in below investment grade listed securities. However, Portfolio Manager
      may invest up to 10% of the assets under management of such clients in unlisted unrated
      securities of issuers other than associates/related parties of Portfolio Manager. The said
      investment in unlisted unrated debt and hybrid securities shall be within the maximum
                                                                                         Page 3 of 8
     specified limit of 25% for investment in unlisted securities under Regulation 24(4) of the
     PMS Regulations.

D. Disclosure of details of investments by Portfolio Managers

  I. Periodic Report to the clients

 a) Portfolio Managers shall disclose the following in the periodical report required to be
    furnished to clients in terms of para 12 of the SEBI Circular
    SEBI/HO/IMD/DF1/CIR/P/2020/26 dated February 13, 2020:

      i.    Details of investment of client’s funds in the securities of associates/related parties
            of the Portfolio Manager.
     ii.    Details of instances of passive breach of investment limits, if any, and steps taken to
            rectify the same.
    iii.    Details of credit ratings of investments in debt and hybrid securities.

b) Accordingly, the format for client reporting as provided in Annexure B of aforesaid Circular
   dated February 13, 2020 has been revised to include the following tables as a separate head
   under clause E.

   Investments in the securities of associates/related parties of Portfolio Manager:
   i. Transaction wise

    Sr.    Issuer     Type of      ISIN                                   Transaction wise Details
    No.    name       security              Transaction    Buy/sell   Quantity Gross        transaction      Net transaction value
                                            date                                value (INR in crores)        (INR in crores)



   ii. Security wise

     Sr.     Issuer     Type of      ISIN                                        Security wise Details
     No.     name       security              Investment amount       Value of investments       percentage of     percentage of
                                              (cost of investment)    as on last day of the      client’s AUM as   PM’s AUM as on
                                              as on last day of the   previous quarter (INR      on last day of    last day of the
                                              previous     quarter    in crores)                 the previous      previous quarter
                                              (INR in crores)                                    quarter (INR in   (INR in crores)
                                                                                                 crores)




                                                                                                                    Page 4 of 8
       iii. Details regarding passive breach of investment limits:

       Sr. Details of passive      Date of passive      Details of steps taken, if any, to     Date of       Whether rectified within
       No. breach                  breach               rectify the passive breach of limits   rectification 90 days



       iv. Details of credit ratings of investments in debt and hybrid securities.

II.    Disclosure Document

       Regulations 22 (4) (da) & (db) of PMS Regulations provides that the Portfolio Manager shall
       disclose in the Disclosure Document the details of its diversification policy and the details of
       investment of clients’ funds by the Portfolio Manager in the securities of its related parties
       or associates. Accordingly, the Portfolio Manager shall ensure compliance with the
       following:

      i. Disclosure of the details of investment of clients’ funds in the securities of
         associate/related parties in the Disclosure Document under the head “Details of
         investments in the securities of related parties of the Portfolio Manager”, in the following
         format:

      Investments in the securities of associates/related parties of Portfolio Manager:

        Sr.    Investment        Name of      Investment amount (cost of      Value of investment as on       percentage of total
        No.     Approach,          the       investment) as on last day of     last day of the previous       AUM as on last day
                  if any        associate/       the previous calendar         calendar quarter (INR in         of the previous
                                 related         quarter (INR in crores)                crores)                calendar quarter
                                  party



      ii. Portfolio Managers shall ensure that any material changes in the above information is
          updated in the Disclosure Document and uploaded on their respective websites within 7
          days.

3. Applicability

  a) The requirements as specified at para 2 above and in Regulations 22 (1A), 22(4) (da) & (db), 24
     (3A) to 3(E) of PMS Regulations shall not be applicable for advisory portfolio management
     services, co-investment portfolio management services and for client categories who in turn
     manage funds under government mandates and/or are governed under specific Acts of State
     and/or Parliament.


                                                                                                                     Page 5 of 8
  b) Notwithstanding the above, for advisory portfolio management services, Portfolio Managers
     shall make suitable disclosure to the client regarding conflict of interest with respect to
     investments in the securities of the associates/related parties, while giving advice. The term
     “associate” for this purpose shall have the same meaning as defined under explanation to
     Regulation 24 (3C) of PMS Regulations. Further, Portfolio Managers shall disclose the credit
     rating of all securities, while giving advice.

  c) The circular shall come into effect from September 20, 2022 and the requirements at para
     2(D)(II) above shall come into effect from the quarter ending September 2022.

4. This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the Securities and
   Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Regulation 43 of the SEBI (Portfolio Managers)
   Regulations, 2020, to protect the interests of the investors in securities market and to promote
   the development of, and to regulate the securities market.

5. The circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories “Info for –
   Portfolio Managers” and "Legal framework - Circulars".
                                                                                Yours faithfully,
                                                                        Manaswini Mahapatra
                                                                              General Manager
                                                                              +91-22-26449375
                                                                       manaswinim@sebi.gov.in




                                                                                        Page 6 of 8
                                                                                                    Annexure: A
                      Format of obtaining the consent from the client
1. This document is for obtaining the consent/dissent for investment by Portfolio Manager in its
   associates/related parties.

2. As per SEBI (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020, the limits applicable for investment in the
   securities of associates/related parties of Portfolio Manager are as under:

    Security                            Limit for investment in         single    Limit for investment across multiple
                                        associate/related       party      (as    associates/related      parties  (as
                                        percentage of client’s AUM)               percentage of client’s AUM)
    Equity                                              15%                                       25%
    Debt and hybrid securities                          15%                                       25%
    Equity + Debt + Hybrid securities                                            30%


3. The client may choose not to invest in the securities of associates/related parties of the
   Portfolio Manager. Further, the client may choose a limit lower than the limits prescribed at
   para 2 above.

4. The risks and conflict of interest associated with investment by the Portfolio Manager in the
   securities of its associates/related parties are as under:
   Risks:
   Conflict of Interest:

5. In case the client wants the Portfolio Manager to invest in the securities issued by
   associated/related parties of Portfolio Manager and provides the consent for the same, the
   investments shall be subject to the following limits:

    Security                             Limit for investment in single           Limit for investment across
                                         associate/related party (as              multiple associates/related parties
                                         percentage of client’s AUM)              (as percentage of client’s AUM)
    Equity
    Debt and hybrid securities
    Equity + Debt + Hybrid securities


6. In case of passive breach of investment limits (i.e., occurrence of instances not arising out of
   omission and/or commission of Portfolio Manager) as decided at para 5 above, a rebalancing
   of the portfolio is required to be completed by Portfolio Managers within a period of 90 days
   from the date of such breach. However, the client may give an informed, prior positive

                                                                                                         Page 7 of 8
   consent to the Portfolio Manager for a waiver from the requirement of rebalancing of the
   portfolio to rectify the passive breach of investment limits. The client may choose not to
   provide any waiver.

7. Please indicate consent or dissent as under:

Limits on investment
   Consent: Portfolio Manager can invest in the securities of its associates/related parties within
   the limits agreed upon at para 5 above.
   Dissent: Portfolio Manager cannot invest in the securities of its associates/related parties.

Waiver from rebalancing of portfolio on passive breach of investment limits
  Consent: Portfolio Manager need not rebalance the portfolio on passive breach of
  investment limits.
  Dissent: Portfolio Manager should rebalance the portfolio on passive breach of investment
  limits.




                                                                           Signature of the client




                                                                                       Page 8 of 8
